# book answers

The depth of a well-balanced binary tree containing m leaves is equal to log2(m),2 rounded up. A binary Decision Tree (one that makes only binary decisions, as is the case with all trees in Scikit-Learn) will end up more or less well balanced at the end of training, with one leaf per training instance if it is trained without restrictions. Thus, if the training set contains one million instances, the Decision Tree will have a depth of log2(106) ≈ 20 (actually a bit more since the tree will generally not be perfectly well balanced).

A node’s Gini impurity is generally lower than its parent’s. This is due to the CART training algorithm’s cost function, which splits each node in a way that minimizes the weighted sum of its children’s Gini impurities. However, it is possible for a node to have a higher Gini impurity than its parent, as long as this increase is more than compensated for by a decrease in the other child’s impurity. For example, consider a node containing four instances of class A and one of class B. Its Gini impurity is 0.32. Now suppose the dataset is one-dimensional and the instances are lined up in the following order: A, B, A, A, A. You can verify that the algorithm will split this node after the second instance, producing one child node with instances A, B, and the other child node with instances A, A, A. The first child node’s Gini impurity is “0.5, which is higher than its parent’s. This is compensated for by the fact that the other node is pure, so its overall weighted Gini impurity is 0.2, which is lower than the parent’s Gini impurity.

If a Decision Tree is overfitting the training set, it may be a good idea to decrease max_depth, since this will constrain the model, regularizing it.

Decision Trees don’t care whether or not the training data is scaled or centered; that’s one of the nice things about them. So if a Decision Tree underfits the training set, scaling the input features will just be a waste of time.

The computational complexity of training a Decision Tree is O(n × m log(m)). So if you multiply the training set size by 10, the training time will be multiplied by K = (n × 10m × log(10m)) / (n × m × log(m)) = 10 × log(10m) / log(m). If m = 106, then K ≈ 11.7, so you can expect the training time to be roughly 11.7 hours.

Presorting the training set speeds up training only if the dataset is smaller than a few thousand instances. If it contains 100,000 instances, setting presort=True will considerably slow down training.